# Method

## Participants

A total of _____ individuals participated in the present study and took part in two total sessions.  There were two groups of participants for the study. One group, was the experimental group, which were recruited from Rutgers State University in New Brunswick, New Jersey over a given time period of two weeks. This group of participants consisted of adult second language learners of Spanish with different proficiency levels. They consisted of both intermediate undergraduate students and advanced graduate students in Spanish. Their first language was English. Students who participated in this study received either course credit or extra credit in their Spanish courses. 

Another group who participated in the present study, the control group, consisted of monolingual adults who spoke only English. For this group, we used an online survey service called Prolific, which connects researchers with potential participants for their studies. Prolific is used to collect data from people not only from one country, but from all over the world. As researchers, we were able to screen for the right individuals we needed for the experiment through the use of precise questions and information provided to Prolific. Prolific then allowed us to integrate our experiment on their platform, screen for the participants we needed, and we were able to collect the data we needed for the study. The participants we recruited through this service needed to answer a few questions to make sure they were the proper participants we needed. The participants from Prolific were also required to take part in both sessions. They received monetary compensation for their time to complete the tasks.

All of the participants took part in the same tasks and they also completed them in two sessions. The first session included a forced choice task followed by a lextale task to determine their proficiency. During the lextale task, all of the participants were asked to answer three questions. They were asked if English was their first language. Then they were asked if they had started learning Spanish at the age of 13 or older. Participants also had to inform us if they knew any other languages, apart from English and Spanish.

## Auditory stimuli

The stimuli were presented using the Psychopy software. The program provided instructions in spoken and written form simultaneously. Spoken instructions (duration = 35 s) were recorded in English by a 25-year-old female Spanish-English simultaneous bilingual. In the instructions, the recording did not orally mention the target words, but these were presented in written form.
The stimuli were adapted from Gonsales and Lotto (2013, 2019) and they consisted of disyllabic pseudowords containing bilabial stops in utterance initial position. The pseudowords included a continua from bafri to pafri.
The original recording included the Spanish pafri token (/paf??i/), which was stripped both of its final three sounds, (-fri), and of the voiceless initial sound, (p-), although not
including the release burst. The author selected the Spanish pa- token as the continuum's 0 ms VOT token. This original token was transformed into 7 tokens that ranged in VOT from ???35 ms to ???5ms, and from +5ms to +30 ms. All intervals lasted approximately 5 ms. The /ba-pa/ continuum's bilabial stop's VOT ranged within both Spanish and English /b-p/ intervals (Hay, 2005; Lisker
& Abramson, 1970; Williams, 1977). The Spanish /a/ segment had an English counterpart, /??/. The aforementioned Spanish and English vowels differ in backness (being central and back vowels,
respectively). However, they overlap in F1-F2 space. What is more, these vowels are perceived very similarly by Spanish-English bilinguals (Flege, Munro, & Fox, 1994).
These continua were recorded by another female Spanish-English bilingual, using the Praat software (Boersma & Weenink, 2010).

## Procedure

XXX participants were recruited from a large university in the Northeastern U.S. All participants provided informed consent to participate in this study and received extra course credit for their voluntary participation. The data collection period lasted for roughly three weeks, beginning March 25th, 2019. Participants completed the experiment individually at a computer lab in two sessions. In session one, participants received the Spanish version and in session two the English version. There was a minimum of one hour between sessions and a maximum of one week. The first session lasted approximately 10 minutes and the second 5 minutes. Participants completed the proficiency test at the end of session one. After participants received the general instructions from an English-speaking experimenter, they were seated individually in front of a computer monitor and fitted with headphones. All the interactions between the participants and the experimenter took place in English in both experimental sessions. They received the computer-based instructions before they started the two-alternative forced-choice identification task. Each trial began with the appearance of a fixation cross. XXX ms later, the fixation cross was replaced by the two pseudowords on either side of the screen, 'bafri' and 'pafri', which stayed on the screen until the end of the trial. The side of the pseudowords was counterbalanced across participants. XXX ms after the appearance of the pseudowords, participants began to listen to one continuum token at a comfortable volume. Participants were instructed to press the left arrow key or the right arrow key to indicate whether the speaker was beginning to say the 'rare word' located on the left or right side of the screen. The participant's key press ended the trial. There was no time limit for each trial, but participants were instructed to press a key as fast as possible. XX continuum tokens were presented in X random orders for a total of XX trials. There were X initial practice trials. The same procedure was followed in both experimental sessions. 

## Statistical analysis


<!--
Word limit: 1500 max
-->
